---
title: "More on the structure"
date: 2020-09-27T11:55:09-07:00
draft: false 
---

# Folder Structure

Before we start finishing up our site, I'm going to go more into detail about each of the folders you'll find, and what they do, so if you choose to edit your site more, you'll understand how to do so. If you're not interested in editing more, feel free to skip this page.

## Content
Let's start with the content folder. You already know that this is where all your posts and markdown go, but you might not know that you can also put HTML in here. I wouldn't advise doing so, but it's possible. As well, you can specify custom *layouts* for each of your markdown posts, which are taken from your theme.

## Theme
The theme folder is found under `themes/[theme name]`. Inside, you'll find a lot of subfolders, but for now, we're interested in layouts. In layouts:
- \_default are Hugo-generated files that tell the theme where to put content, and if there's a header or footer involved.
- partials contain Hugo partials, which are a very powerful tool. In here, we can put HTML snippets, and reference them in our markdown with `{{ partial [path]/[name].html . }}`. Think of these as header or footer files, for example.
- shortcodes contains Hugo shortcodes, which are little snippets, kind of like a partial, except these usually bring outside functionality into Hugo, such as the Twitter or YouTube shortcodes. 
- 404.html and index.html are mostly self explanatory - 404 is for pages that don't exist, and index.html shows the default landing page.

If we go back up one directory, we'll find the static directory. This is where CSS and JS go, as well as any theme assets.

We'll also find an archetypes directory in themes - this controls the default markdown added when you run `hugo new posts/xyz.md`.

## Static
This is where site static files go, like perhaps a logo image. You can override CSS and JS here as well.

## Public
This is generally where the site build files go, after being processed by Hugo. This is overrideable in config.yaml by adding the line:
```yaml
publishDir: ./foldername
```

If you're interested in learning more about theming and Hugo template variables, I highly recommend referencing the [Hugo docs](https://gohugo.io/documentation/). It's a comprehensive resource for anyone looking to customize a theme or build one from scratch, and is very clear. 
