---
title: "Deploying"
date: 2020-09-27T11:54:09-07:00
draft: false 
---

# Publishing

You can't just upload the Hugo files as they are to GitHub or Netlify for them to show up - we have to use something called a build process. This takes all the files and puts them through Hugo to churn out the HTML and CSS that we need.

This building is why we call Hugo a *static site generator* - it generates static sites which can go on a CDN instead of a more costly server. 

Run `hugo` to build all the files. Your finished files will end up in the `public` directory by default.

## GitHub Publishing
If you'd like to publish your site on GitHub Pages for example, you can simply drag and drop the files in the public directory in. If you choose to push the whole Hugo repository onto GitHub, you may want to change the publishDir to something like `docs/`, which GitHub also offers as a GH Pages source. 

Alternatively, you can set the publishDir to another folder outside of the Hugo folder, such as `../hugo-build`, and initialize that as a new repository to push to GitHub.

Congratulations - you've just built your very own static site, and it didn't even take that long. Static sites and the JAMStack are increasingly prevalent technologies, and they're likely to influence the web greatly in the future.

---

This workshop was created by [Emilie Ma](https://kewbi.sh) for the Liquid Galaxy GCIers podcast. 

The demo site is available at [kewbi.sh/lg-jamstack](https://kewbi.sh/lg-jamstack).  
The GitHub source is available at [kewbish/lg-jamstack](https://github.com/kewbish/lg-jamstack).
